WELCOME TO THE
AUGUST 1ST TWENTY TWENTY THREE
REGULAR MEETING OF THE PLANNING
COMMISSION, THE DETAILED
INFORMATION ON MEETING
PROCEDURES PLEASE REVIEW A FULL
PRINTED MEETING AGENDA PROVIDED
MIXED KELLY WILL YOU PLEASE
CALL THE ROLL RAISE YOUR SHARE
CLERK MR. HAMMERSCHMIDT HERE
AND SOLVE IT HERE MR. ABRAMS
HERE COUNCIL MEMBER THIS
COMMISSIONER MILLS AND
COMMISSION LEE ARE NOTED ABSENT
IN ADVANCE.
I WILL MAKE A STAFF NOTE AT
THIS TIME THAT SIX MEMBERS ARE
REQUIRED TO AFFIRMATIVELY
APPROVE ANY ACTION AND STAFF DO
RECOMMEND POSTPONE ITEMS TODAY
AFTER CLOSING THE PUBLIC
HEARINGS TO THE NEXT REGULAR
SESSION WHICH WILL BE ON AUGUST
15TH.
NOTED.
THANK YOU.
WE'RE NOW ON TO APPROVAL OF THE
AGENDA.
I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE THE
AGENDA MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
WISCH, SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
SAUVé.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON THE
AGENDA ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
OF THE MOTION PLEASE I I AM
OPPOSED.
THE MOTION CARRIES ITEM FOUR
MINUTES OF THE PREVIOUS
MEETING.
WE HAVE NO MINUTES THIS EVENING
FORWARDED FOR REVIEW MOVING ON
TO ITEM FIVE REPORTS TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND WRITTEN
COMMUNICATIONS SO COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH ISN'T HERE.
SO IT'S NOTED THAT CITY COUNCIL
HASN'T MET SINCE OUR LAST
CONVENING REPORTS FROM PLANNING
NEXT.
KELLY, DO YOU HAVE ANYTHING TO
REPORT?
JUST A NOTE FOR THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
THAT STUFF ARE IN THE PROCESS
OF SCHEDULING INTERVIEWS WITH
OTHER CITY STAFF AND
STAKEHOLDERS FOR THE FINAL WEEK
OF AUGUST
.
IS THERE AN AVAILABLE OVERALL
SCHEDULE FOR THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLANNING PROCESS?
YEAH, I CAN SHARE THAT.
I'LL SHARE THAT WITH THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
THAT WOULD BE GREAT.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMISSION OFFICERS
OR COMMITTEE LIAISONS HAVE
ANYTHING TO REPORT?
I MISSED OAKIE SO YEAH
COMMISSIONER SO I CAN REPORT
AND OVERSEE.
WE MET LAST WEEK THE TWENTY
FIFTH OF JULY AND WE DISCUSSED
THE WORK PROGRAM UPCOMING
RELATIVE TO THINGS ACCOMPLISHED
EARLY DISCUSSION ON DRYFOOS AND
THERE ARE SOME ACTUALLY
HOMEWORK GIVEN OUT.
SO AS A WORKING COMMISSION
WE'RE LOOKING AT SOME DIFFERENT
EXAMPLES FROM CITIES AND THOSE
ARE THE TWO THINGS THAT WE'RE
WORKING TOWARDS.
GREAT.
THANK YOU.
AND THEN WRITTEN
COMMUNICATIONS.
THERE ARE WRITTEN
COMMUNICATIONS INCLUDED IN
TODAY'S FOUR OF YOU.
OK, WE'RE ON TO ITEM NUMBER SIX
PUBLIC COMMENT.
SO THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE
THAT IS NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
HEARING ON THIS AGENDA.
WELL, FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PRESS STAR NINE LISTENING BY
PHONE OR USE THE PHRASE HAND
FEATURE VIEWING THROUGH THE
WEBLINK FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
ENTER MEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
WHO'VE RAISED THEIR HANDS USING
THE LAST THREE DIGITS OF THEIR
PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME IF
AVAILABLE FOR THOSE ACCESSING
THROUGH THE WEBLINK YOU HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK
WITH SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A
QUIET AREA, MUTE TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUNDS SO WE MAY
HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER
METHOD OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME
?
THANK YOU CHABON'S KINGBOROUGH
TWENTY HAMMER COURT AT YOUR
JUNE 6TH MEETING YOU APPROVE
SOME SET BACK ADJUSTMENTS TO
LOCKWOOD SENIOR LIVING PD NOW
UNDER CONSTRUCTION ON ELSWORTH
MINOR MATTER BUT DURING THE
DISCUSSION COMMISSIONER DISH
ASKED MARK LOCKWOOD IF THE
BUILDING WOULD USE ELECTRIC
HEAT AS AGREED, BLACKWOOD HAD
PROMISED COUNSEL THAT THE
BUILDING WOULD BE ALL ELECTRIC
EXCEPT FOR THE COMMERCIAL
KITCHEN.
MR. ROCKWOOD REPLIED TO
COMMISSIONER THAT NO THEY WERE
GOING WITH GAS HEAT.
HE EXPLAINED THAT HE NEEDED A
WAIVER FROM MR TO GO ELECTRIC
AND QUOTE THAT WAIVER REQUEST
WAS SUBMITTED AND WAS NOT
APPROVED END QUOTE.
NO ONE I HEARD THIS I COULD NOT
BELIEVE THAT MR WOOD DENIED
THIS WAIVER WHEN IT ROUTINELY
GRANTED SO I SUBMITTED A FEW
REQUESTS TO MR TURNS OUT I WAS
RIGHT.
YES, ROCKWOOD ASKED FOR A
WAIVER BUT MR DID NOT DENY THE
REQUEST.
INSTEAD MARIANNE RUKUN
INTRODUCED MR. CHIEF ARCHITECT
WANTED MORE INFORMATION ABOUT
THE CITY'S WISHES FOR THIS
PROJECT.
SHE SENT THIS INTERNAL MESSAGE
QUOTE IF THE ANN ARBOR CITY
COUNCIL MAKES A STAND AGAINST
THE USE OF GAS FOR TRACK AND
WATER HEATERS WAIVE THAT
REQUIREMENT TO KEEP THE PROJECT
MOVING END QUOTE BACKWARD NEVER
FOLLOWED UP.
SO MR. ROCKWOOD MAY BE
TECHNICALLY CORRECT WHEN HE
SAID THAT THE WAIVER WAS NOT
APPROVED BUT NEITHER WAS IT
DENIED NO FINAL DECISION WAS
MADE.
LOCKWOOD JUST DROPPED IT.
WE KNOW THAT MR NEVER REQUIRED
GAS FOR THIS PROJECT BECAUSE IN
MAY BEFORE YOU SHOWS LOCKWOOD
ASKED MR TO GET A CHANGE FOR
ONE GAS WATER HEATING SYSTEM TO
ANOTHER.
MARY ANN VERONICA WROTE THIS TO
MR LOCKWOOD.
GOOD MORNING MARK.
WHILE WE DON'T OBJECT TO A GAS
FIRED BOILERS AND SENIOR
DEVELOPMENTS DIDN'T EVER WANT
THE BUILDING TO BE ALL ELECTRIC
POWER TO WHICH MR LOCKWOOD
REPLIED HI MARYANN AND I DID
INITIALLY WANT THE ALL ELECTRIC
BUT THEY ACQUIESCED TO THE
MISSION OF DESIGN STANDARDS AND
PERMITTED GAS, HEAT AND WATER
END QUOTE.
SO HERE WE HAVE MR ASSUMING THE
BUILDING WAS ELECTRIC AND MR
LOCKWOOD TELLING THEM THE CITY
TOLD HIM TO USE GAS AFTER ALL
THEN TO YOU ON JUNE SIX HE
BLAMED MR FOR THE GAS.
THIS IS LIKE A KID TELLING HIS
MOM DADDY SAID I COULD DO IT
AND THEN TELLING HIS DAD MOMMY
SAID I COULD DO IT AND SINCE
MOMMY AND DADDY AREN'T SPEAKING
NO ONE'S THE WISER.
BOTTOM LINE YOU WERE LIED TO
AND COUNSEL WAS LIED TO.
MR IS NOT TO BLAME BUT SOMEONE
AT THE CITY IS MR WAS PREPARED
TO GRANT THE WAIVER AND
LOCKWOOD WROTE COUNSEL THAT IT
WAS QUOTE COMMITTED TO DOING
ALL ELECTRIC END QUOTE.
BUT SOME CITY OFFICIAL BEHIND
CLOSED DOORS TOLD LOCKWOOD TO
GO AHEAD WITH GAS.
I I CAN ONLY THINK THAT WHEN IT
COMES TO CLIMATE IT'S JUST A
GAME OF PRETEND PLAUSIBLE
DENIABILITY AND YOU AND I WHERE
THE SUCKERS WERE THE LOSERS IN
THIS GAME.
THANK IS THERE ANYONE ELSE
PRESENT THAT WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS TIME?
IS THERE ANYBODY THAT WOULD
LIKE TO ADDRESS US REMOTELY
ACTUALLY AND WAS JUST RAISED A
PHONE NUMBER ENDING IN FOUR SIX
FIVE YOU PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
THE COMMISSION
?
HELLO?
>> AM I AM I BEING HEARD?
YES, YOU CAN HEAR ME OK.
THANK YOU.
MY NAME IS EDWARD DERMODY.
I'M AT TWELVE TEN BROOKLYN
HAPPENING I MAKE A COMMENT ONLY
THAT THE MINUTES OF THE
PREVIOUS MEETING ARE NOT
AVAILABLE FOR YOU.
THE PLANNING COMMISSION AND
OTHER CITY COMMISSIONS HAVE HAD
A HISTORY OF NON TIMELY
PRODUCTION.
I THOUGHT THAT THAT PROBLEM HAD
BEEN SOLVED BY ADDITIONAL STAFF
.
APPARENTLY IT HASN'T AND I WILL
BE ATTENDING A FORMAL COURSE TO
THE CLERK FOUR MINUTES TO THE
PREVIOUS MEETING AS SOON AS
THEY'RE AVAILABLE.
DRAFT MINUTES ARE SUPPOSED TO
BE MADE AVAILABLE VERY PROMPTLY
AFTER THE MINUTES ARE PRODUCED
THERE'S A STATUTORY REQUIREMENT
FOR THAT.
SO VERY DISAPPOINTED THAT THE
RECORD
THIS BODY'S WORK IS NOT
BEING MEMORIALIZED COMPLETE.
THANK YOU.
THERE ARE NO OTHER HANDS RAISED
AT THIS TIME.
THANK YOU.
WE'LL MOVE ON TO ITEM SEVEN
PUBLIC HEARINGS FOR THE NEXT
BUSINESS MEETING.
A PUBLIC HEARING ON THE
FOLLOWING ITEMS WILL BE HELD AT
THE PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
FOR TUESDAY, AUGUST 15TH.
TWENTY TWENTY THREE AT SEVEN
P.M. THE FIRST IS THIRTY SIX
EIGHTY PACARD ROAD WHICH IS
BLOSSOM DUNNILL FOR CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL.
THIS IS A PROPOSED THIRTEEN
THOUSAND TWO HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY THREE SQUARE FOOT ONE
STOREY DENTAL OFFICE AND A ONE
POINT TWO ONE ACRE VACANT
PARCEL WHICH IS ZONED OFFICE A
TWENTY NINE CAR PARKING LOT
WILL ALSO BE CONSTRUCTED WITH
SHARED ACCESS TO THE ADJACENT
PROPERTY AND THE THE SECOND
HEARING IS FOR PROPOSED
AMENDMENTS TO FRONT SET BACK
REGULATION AND THE TICK ONE
ZONING DISTRICT TO MEASURE
SETBACKS FROM CURB EDGES
INSTEAD OF LINES CHANGES WILL
AFFECT CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE
OF THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE SECTION FIVE POINT SIXTEEN
POINT THREE USE SPECIFIC
STANDARDS FOR COMMERCIAL USES
AND MAY ALSO AFFECT FIVE POINT
SEVENTEEN POINT FOR MIXED USE
ZONING DISTRICTS AND A PROPOSED
SECTION FIVE POINT SEVENTEEN
POINT SEVEN.
THANK YOU.
WE'RE NOW ON TO ITEM NINE A OUR
FIRST ITEM OF REGULAR BUSINESS.
THIS IS A PETITION FOR UH TWO
EIGHT ZERO FIVE BURTON ROAD,
THE BRIGHTON VILLAGE SITE FOR
AN AMENDMENT FOR PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVAL.
THIS IS A PROPOSAL TO REDUCE
THE SIZE OF THE INDOOR
GATHERING BUILDING BY
APPROXIMATELY TWO THOUSAND
SQUARE FEET, ADJUST TO
SIDEWALKS AND UTILITY NEEDS TO
RELOCATE BARRIER FREE PARKING
AND MAKE ELECTRIC VEHICLE
CHARGING UPDATE'S PER CURRENT
EDITION OF THE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE ON AN EIGHT
ACRE SITE ZONED R FOR B
MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
THE STAFF RECOMMENDATION IS
APPROVAL.
UM I'M SEEING IN MY NOTES THAT
THERE IS NO PRODUCTION OR
PRESENTATION THIS EVENING SO
WE'LL MOVE TO THE STAFF
PRESENTATION.
YEAH, JUST A VERY HIGH LEVEL
FOR BOTH THIS PETITION THE
FOLLOWING WE ARE GOING TO KEEP
BOTH OBVIOUSLY THE PETITION AND
THE STAFF PRESENTATION BRIEF
BECAUSE WE DON'T HAVE ENOUGH
MEMBERS TO TAKE ACTION ON THE
PROPERTY.
OUR RECOMMENDATION IS TO HOLD
THE PUBLIC HEARING, SOLICIT ANY
PUBLIC COMMENT AND THEN WE
WOULD BE RECOMMENDING A
POSTPONEMENT AFTER THE PUBLIC
HEARING TO THE AUGUST 15TH
MEETING.
THE ONLY THING THAT I WOULD
SUGGEST IS IF YOU HAVE ANY
INITIAL QUESTIONS OR THOUGHTS
THAT WOULD BE HELPFUL FOR
EITHER THE PETITIONERS OR STAFF
TO MAKE SURE WE ADDRESS WHEN
THE FULL PRESENTATION COMES
BACK TO THE PLANNING COMMISSION
ON THE FIFTEENTH, PLEASE FEEL
FREE TO RAISE THEM BEFORE YOU
TAKE ANY ACTION TO POSTPONE AND
WE CAN MAKE SURE THAT WE
ADDRESS THAT
.
SO DOES THAT MEAN YOU'RE NOT
THE ONLY PRESENTATION OF THAT
PROJECT?
OK, JUST THAT OVERVIEW JUST TO
REITERATE AS YOU PUT THE
AGENDA, THE PROPOSED CHANGES
ARE A NEW CLUBHOUSE.
IT'S A SMALLER CLUBHOUSE THAN
ORIGINALLY PROPOSED PARKING LOT
RECONFIGURATIONS FOR BARRIER
FREE PARKING AND SOME GRADING
CHANGES TO IMPROVE SOME OF THE
VISIBILITY OF SOME OF THOSE
THOSE AREAS AS PART OF THOSE
REQUIRED SUBMITTAL THEY ARE
BRINGING THE SITE INTO
COMPLIANCE WITH OUR REVISED EV
PARKING STANDARDS.
YOU'LL SEE IN THE STAFF REPORT
THE ADJUSTMENTS TO THOSE AS
WELL AND IT IS A PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR OUR SITE PLAN
FOR PLANNING APPROVAL WITH
THOSE CHANGES.
THANK YOU.
THEN WE'LL MOVE NOW TO THE
PUBLIC HEARING AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THE
PROPOSED PROJECT ON BURTON
ROAD.
WELL, FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THE PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PRESS STAR NINE IF BY LISTENING
BY PHONE OR USE THE RESIDENT
FEATURE IF VIEWING THROUGH THE
WEB LINK FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
ENTER A MEETING I'D NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF WILL
SELECT CALLERS YOU'VE RAISED
THEIR HAND USING THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
WE'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING.
PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND
MUTE THE TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUNDS SO WE MAY
HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER
METHOD OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYBODY PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME AS IF YOU HAD HAVEN'T HAD
ENOUGH OF ME ALREADY TONIGHT
KEN GARBER AGAIN UM THIS IS
ANOTHER GAS BURNING DEVELOPMENT
AND THIS MAY BE AN OPPORTUNITY
TO PUSH FOR THIS COMMUNITY
BUILDING TO BE HEATED
ELECTRICALLY WITH A HEAT PUMP
AND TO OFFSET SOME OF THAT
ELECTRICITY WITH ROOFTOP SOLAR
.
UM, THAT'S MY ONLY COMMENT.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYBODY ELSE PRESENT
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
DO YOU SEE ANYBODY ON THE ZOOME
NEXT KELLY NO I'M THERE NO
HANDS RAISED.
ALL RIGHT WE WILL CLOSE THE
PUBLIC HEARING SO WE'RE IN
DISCUSSION ABOUT PROPOSED
MOTION AND THE MOTION IS TO
POSTPONE TO THE AUGUST 15TH
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING IN
PLACE THIS ITEM UNDER
UNFINISHED BUSINESS.
DOES ANYBODY WANT TO MOVE FOR
THAT MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER WISCH?
WE'RE NOW UNDER DISCUSSION OUR
DISCUSSION
IS ANYBODY WANT TO
ANYBODY HAVE ANYTHING THEY WANT
TO ASK OR CLARIFY RAISE NOTHING
.
I ONLY HAD ONE THING IT SAYS IN
THE REPORT THAT THIS THAT THERE
WAS IT SAYS QUOTE TO THE
PETITIONERS THAT POSTCARD
NOTIFICATIONS TO RESIDENTS
WITHIN 500 FEET OF THIS SITE
STAFF HAS RECEIVED EMAILS IN
OPPOSITION TO THIS PROJECT THAT
ARE FORWARDED TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
BUT I DON'T SEE ANY THING ABOUT
WHETHER ANYBODY ATTENDED THAT.
UM, PARTICIPATION MEETING AND
IF THEY DID IF THERE'S A REPORT
BECAUSE OF THE SCALE OF THIS NO
MEETING WAS REQUIRED ONLY
NOTIFICATION OF THAT.
OK,
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS OR
COMMENTS, COMMISSIONER?
I HAVE SPEAK YEAH.
I GUESS UM FOR WHEN THEY COME
BACK I WOULD JUST WANT TO HEAR
ALTHOUGH I WON'T BE HERE I
DON'T HEAR WHY THEY ARE
REDUCING THE SIZE AND IF THERE
IS A POTENTIAL THEN IT'S OR
DECIDES TO MAKE THE BUILDING
FULLY ELECTRIC AND ADD SOLAR IN
THIS NEW PLAN THAT THEY HAVE
.
RIGHT IF THERE ARE NO OTHER
COMMENTS UH WE JUST DO THIS AS
A VOICE VOICE WHAT IS FINE FOR
POSTPONEMENT?
OK, SO VOICE VOTE ON THE
POSTPONEMENT ALL IN FAVOR SAY I
RAISE A HAND I ONLY OPPOSED THE
MOTION CARRIES AROUND ITEM I'D
BE UH EIGHTEEN HUNDRED
WASHINGTON AVENUE EVANS HOUSE
FOR SCHOLARS SPECIAL EXCEPTION
USED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVAL.
THIS IS A REQUEST TO INCREASE
THE OCCUPANCY FROM SIXTY FIVE
TO EIGHTY FIVE NO PROPOSED
CHANGES TO THE EXTERIOR OF THE
HOUSE LOCATED ZERO POINT EIGHT
FIVE ACRE PARCEL ZONED ARE TO
BE TWO FAMILY DWELLING.
THE STAFF RECOMMENDATION IS
APPROVAL.
THE PETITIONER IS AVAILABLE FOR
QUESTIONS BUT IS NOT PREPARED
TO PRESENT SO WE'LL MOVE TO
STAFF JUST AS SUMMARIZED THIS
IS MOSTLY AN APPLICATION
BECAUSE THE PREVIOUS SPECIAL
EXCEPTION NEWS LIMITED THE
OCCUPANCY OF THAT BUILDING
THEY'RE PROPOSING INTERIOR
RENOVATIONS TO THIS PROPERTY TO
INCREASE THE OCCUPANCY LOAD
OF THAT THAT IS PROPOSED TO
INCREASE FROM A MAXIMUM
OF SIXTY FIVE STUDENTS UP TO 85
OCCUPANTS.
AS NOTED, THEY'RE NOT PROPOSING
ANY PHYSICAL CHANGES TO THE
SITE ALTHOUGH THAT WILL BE
INTERNAL.
NO ADDITIONAL PARKING IS
REQUIRED UNDER OUR NEW
ELIMINATION OF MINIMUM PARKING
STANDARDS.
HOWEVER, BECAUSE THAT SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE DOES HAVE A CAP
ON THAT WHILE NORMALLY UNDER A
PERMITTED USE THIS WOULD BE
PERMISSIBLE JUST FOR A BUILDING
PERMIT.
THAT SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE DOES
HAVE TO BE RECONSIDERED AND
EXTENDED IN ORDER TO PROVIDE
FOR THAT INCREASED OCCUPANCY.
SIMILARLY BECAUSE YOU ONLY HAVE
FIVE MEMBERS AND IT REQUIRES
SIX AFFIRMATIVE VOTES, I THINK
IT WOULD BE APPROPRIATE TO
POSTPONE TO THE AUGUST 15TH
MEETING TO PROVIDE THE FULL
COMMISSION THE OPPORTUNITY TO
HEAR THE DETAILS FURTHER
OF THAT RENOVATION AND MAKE A
DETERMINATION.
RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
SO WILL NOW HOLD THE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS ITEM AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR PERSONS TO
SPEAK FOR UP TO THREE MINUTES
ABOUT THE PROPOSED PROJECT?
WELL, FIRST CALL INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THE PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PRESS STAR NINE IF LISTENING BY
PHONE OR USE THE RES AND
FEATURE VIEWING THROUGH THE WEB
LINK FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
INTERMEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
WHO'VE RAISED THEIR HAND USING
THE LAST THREE DIGITS OF THEIR
PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME
OF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
YOU'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA AND MUTE TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUNDS OR WE MAY
HEAR YOU MORE CLEARLY FOR
EITHER METHOD OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
HI I'M JERRY KAPLAN FROM FIVE
OR SIX ARROWHEAD WEST
BLOOMFIELD, MICHIGAN.
I'M THE ARCHITECT FOR THIS
PROJECT
.
SUBMITTED THE MATERIAL TO YOU.
I'M HERE BASICALLY TO ANSWER
QUESTIONS.
I THINK THE PROJECT IS CLEAR
AND THE INTENT YOU DESCRIBE IT
WELL AND IF YOU HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS I'D BE HAPPY TO
ANSWER.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYBODY ELSE PRESENT I
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME SO NO QUESTIONS FROM OUR
SO WE'LL JUST THIS IS THE
PUBLIC HEARING SO ANYBODY WHO
WANTS TO SPEAK CAN SPEAK THEN
WE'LL MOVE INTO DISCUSSION AND
THEN IF THERE ARE QUESTIONS
WE'LL CALL YOU BACK SO YOU CAN
HAVE A SEAT IN THE MEANTIME.
THANK YOU.
ANYBODY ELSE PRESENT WHO WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK OK, ANYBODY WHO
WANTS TO ADDRESS US REMOTELY
GOING ONCE, TWICE NOTHING GREAT
.
OK, SO NOW WE'RE GOING TO CLOSE
THE PUBLIC HEARING.
I'LL READ THE PROPOSED MOTION.
THE MOTION IS TO POSTPONE TO
AUGUST 15TH PLANNING COMMISSION
AND PLEASE THIS ITEM UNDER
UNFINISHED BUSINESS MOVE BY MR.
WISCH SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
SAUVé.
WE ARE NOW IN DISCUSSION.
DOES ANYBODY HAVE ANY QUESTIONS
OR COMMENTS ON THIS ITEM?
COMMISSIONER SAUVé IS BUSY.
YOU CAN ADDRESS THIS NOW OR BE
PREPARED TO ADDRESS THIS LATER.
I SAW THAT THE POTENTIAL
MAXIMUM OCCUPANCY WAS ONE
HUNDRED AND SEVEN BUT IT'S BEEN
REQUESTED AT EIGHTY FIVE.
IS THAT A BUILDING
CODE RESTRICTION OR LIKE WOULD
IT REQUIRE IN ADDITION TO THE
BUILDING TO MEET THE HIGHER
OCCUPANCY AND REQUESTED?
NO THAT'S JUST THE CALCULATION
BASED ON FIRE SAFETY
REQUIREMENTS.
OK FIRE CODE SO OK SO ANOTHER
CODE IS MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN
THE HIGHER LEVEL OCCUPANCY.
OK THAT'S HELPFUL.
THANK ANY OTHER COMMENTS OR
QUESTIONS COMMISSIONER WHICH
JUST A QUESTION TO STAFF AROUND
UM CAN YOU JUST SAY MORE ABOUT
THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES IT
BECAUSE IT'S A FRATERNITY
INSIDE A RESIDENTIAL ZONING AND
SO THAT'S HOW IT WAS THAT'S HOW
IT GOT HERE AND THEN THE REASON
WHY IT HAS TO COME BACK IS
BECAUSE THAT ORIGINAL SPECIAL
EXCEPTION YOU HAD A OCCUPANCY
RESTRICTION AND SO COULD YOU
JUST SPEAK TO WHY THE ORIGINAL
SPECIAL EXCEPTION YOU HAD A
OCCUPANCY RESTRICTION
ESPECIALLY WHEN IT COULD GO UP
TO ONE HUNDRED AND SEVEN BUT
WAS SET AT 65 AND IF IN THREE
YEARS DO THEY HAVE TO COME BACK
THROUGH THIS PROCESS TO ADD
ANOTHER EXCEPTION?
SO HOPEFULLY THAT WAS LIKE
THREE QUESTIONS.
SORRY BUT I THINK YOU CAN BREAK
THEM.
YOU'RE ABSOLUTELY RIGHT.
IT IS HERE IT WAS APPROVED AS A
SPECIAL EXCEPTION BECAUSE IT IS
CLASSIFIED AS FRATERNITY
SORORITY OR SIMILAR STUDENT
HOUSING ARRANGEMENT THE
ORDINANCE ACTUALLY REQUIRES AND
THE GRANTING A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE THE OCCUPANCY IS
CAPPED THAT IS BASED ON SOME
REQUIREMENTS OF A CERTAIN
AMOUNT OF LOT AREA PER OCCUPANT
.
AND SO THAT IS THAT'S A
REQUIREMENT OF THE ISSUANCE
OF A RELATED SPECIAL EXEMPTION
USE.
SO IN THIS CASE THAT STANDARD
WAS MADE IF IT WERE AMENDED TO
85 AND THEY WANTED TO EXCEED
THAT IN THE FUTURE, THEN YES,
THEN THEY WOULD HAVE TO AMEND
THAT OR COULD CONSIDER ASKING
FOR A HIGHER LEVEL AT THIS
POINT TO PROVIDE SOME SOME MORE
FLEXIBILE IN THAT LONGER TERM.
CERTAINLY THE CITY COULD
CONSIDER REVISING THAT LANGUAGE
SO IT'S NOT REQUIRED THAT WOULD
NOT AUTOMATICALLY LIKELY
RETROACTIVELY APPLY BECAUSE
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES CAN HAVE
OTHER CONDITIONS APPLIED TO
THEM.
BUT SO I THINK THAT ADDRESSES
THE QUESTION IF I MISSED
ANYTHING LET THAT YOU ON THE
DRAWING THAT WE RECEIVED IN OUR
PACKET DID I ONLY COUNT SIXTEEN
BEDS BUT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
TWENTY OH OK.
SO I DON'T KNOW STAFF OR THE
ARCHITECT WHAT HAPPENED TO
WHERE ARE THE OTHER FOUR BEDS
GOING.
WELL THERE ARE NO OTHER FOUR
BEDS GOING AT THIS TIME.
IT'S OK IT'S A CAPACITY
POSSIBILITY SO WE'RE WE'RE
WE'RE ASKING FOR EIGHTY FIVE
BUT YOU'RE ONLY PUTTING IN TEST
POINT WE'RE ADDING SIXTEEN
CORRECT.
OK AND THEN THAT GIVES YOU THE
ABILITY TO ADD THEM LATER WITH
NO ADDITIONAL CHANGES.
EXACTLY.
OK AND THAT MEETS THE BUILDING
CODE .
I CAN'T SPEAK TO THAT BUT
THAT'S PROBABLY PART OF THAT
DIFFERENCE RIGHT NOW THAT
THEY'RE DOING SOME PROGRAMING
BASED ON BUILDING
CODE REQUIREMENTS AND I'M
GRATEFUL THAT I DON'T KNOW
WHETHER IT'S THE PETITION OR
STAFF HAD A CONVERSATION ABOUT
BUILDING IN SOME FLEXIBILITY IF
THOSE THOSE CHANGES REVOLVE OR
IN THAT CASE IF A SITE PLAN IF
THERE WAS A DESIRE TO DO AN
ADDITION AND IT WAS STILL
WITHIN THAT SPECIAL EXCEPTION
USE CAPACITY YOU MIGHT HAVE THE
ABILITY TO DO THAT WITHOUT
RETURNING THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION
USE AS WELL.
OK, OK THOSE WERE MY QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU.
WE CANNOT ALLOW I'LL TRY TO
CHECK WITH THE BUILDING
DEPARTMENT AND TRY TO PROVIDE A
MORE DEFINITIVE RESPONSE ON
THAT WHEN IT COMES BACK ON
FIFTEENTH.
MR. SOUTHEY, MAYBE WE CAN ADD
TO THE STAFF REQUEST TO
UNDERSTAND THE LEVEL
OF ADDITION THAT WOULD NOT HAVE
TO COME BACK HERE BECAUSE IF
THEY HAVE TO GO THROUGH THIS
PROCESS JUST TO CHANGE THE
OCCUPANCY, IT'S ONE THING.
BUT IF THEY'RE DOING IT BECAUSE
THEY'RE DOING A LARGE ENOUGH
ADDITION TO GO THROUGH THE
PROCESS SO UNDERSTAND TIPPING
POINT TO MAKE SURE PROVIDE THE
FLEXIBILITY MORE BEDS
, ANY
OTHER COMMENTS?
OK, I THINK WE'RE READY TO TAKE
A VOICE VOTE ON THIS MOTION.
SO THIS IS THE MOTION TO
POSTPONE TO THE AUGUST 15TH
MEETING AND PLACE THIS ITEM
UNDER UNFINISHED BUSINESS UM
ALL IN FAVOR SAY I I ONLY
OPPOSED THE MOTION CARRIES OK
WE'RE ONTO ITEM ELEVEN.
THIS IS PUBLIC COMMENT AND
OPPORTUNITY FOR PEOPLE PERSONS
TO SPEAK FOR UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT ANY ISSUE.
UM ON THE AGENDA OR NOT WE WILL
FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION AND REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PRESS LINE OF LISTENING BY
PHONE OR USE THE PHRASE HAND
FUTURE IS VIEWING THROUGH THE
WEB LINK FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AN
INTERMEETING EIGHTY NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX CITIES STAFF WILL
SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED
THEIR HAND USING THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY NAME IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
YOU'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA AND MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUNDS SO WE MAY
HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER
METHOD OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS THE BEGINNING OF YOUR
COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
IS THERE ANYONE THAT WANTS TO
ADDRESS US REMOTELY ALL RIGHT.
THAT I WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING WHERE I AM TWELVE
COMMISSION PROPOSED BUSINESS
ARE THERE ANY COMMISSIONERS
THAT WOULD LIKE TO PROPOSE
BUSINESS?
OK ZINO ONE I LIKE THESE
MEETINGS.
I'M GOING TO MOVE ON TO ITEM
THIRTEEN ADJOURNMENT MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER WESCH SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER SAUVé ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR PLEASE I WE ARE ADJOURNED